My plan is my 400 PM then I'll have an
hour for theory and we have we will have
another hour for practice for yet again
next topic. Okay.
So that's the plan for today in case uh
you
want to plan your evening.
Okay. So since you're here, I will show
solution for topic number four and then
explain a practice for topic number
five.
And basically, yep, you will decide what
to do.
Okay.
[Music]
Okay. Um
you see my screen right? You see my
screen. Uh okay. So for the practice
number four for the topic about entities
and migration. First of all we wanted to
create a new entity a custom one called
usernaming type. So for this
I need to switch the
environment. Okay,
for this uh inside our bundle
uh we created entity directory and this
usernaming type entity that's it's
supposed to be there and this entity
yeah that basically is a PHP class then
it needs to be configurable at
extendable. So to make entity
configurable to do is put this add
config section here. Uh actually it can
be empty like this one. Maybe it will be
even easier. Uh so this just means that
the configurable functionality will be
a particular entity
and that's it. Uh to make it extendable
so to be able to for example create
relation between this entity and some
core entity both entities needs to be
extendable. That's why we want this one
also uh to be extendable. And to do
this, we need to implement extend entity
interface. A million, can I ask you to
mute yourself because I hear some
background noises.
>> Uh sorry.
>> Yeah, sure.
Uh so we need to implement this
interface and uh it will force us to
implement few methods but we don't need
to do it because we also need to um for
our entity to use extend entity trait
inside this trait has all the methods uh
that will allow us to have get fun
getters and setters for all the custom
uh fields and relations.
Uh and then uh
this entity needs to have three fields.
ID which will be our primary key. So it
needs to be auto incremented integer.
Then we have a title that is string max
length 64 and format also string in this
case max length 255.
Uh hi I'm just explaining solution for
previous uh practice from yesterday.
Uh okay so to do that inside our entity
we are adding those fields ID title and
format. Uh and then we also generated
because you can generate from PHP storm
or create on your own depending what you
prefer. uh getters and setters. For ID
only getter because this is supposed to
be automatically incremented value. So
no setter here. But for title and for
format we have both getters and setters.
Uh and then we need to add mappings uh
doctrine mappings.
So for doctrine mappics we use
this import
and uh in here we're mapping we're
basically saying doctrine that this is
going to be an entity and it's going to
sit in this particular table and for
each field on this entity we also need
to add mappings. So here this is id uh
it's an integer and it will be
automatically generated the value for
the string uh columns uh the mapping
it's easier only the fact that it's
going to be a column of type string some
length and we actually also added here
uh nullable false so we will need to
fill in the values for those fields and
that's all regarding creating the entity
itself so short entity key
table name three uh fields getter
setters and that's it. Uh then we want
this entity to be inside the database.
So for this we need to create installer
and here also we have a hint of how to
create a table. Okay. So we will also
need to do similar thing to create some
table the one for our usernaming type.
Then add ID column, mark it as primary
key. And then add two string columns.
Not label for us. It's title and format.
But basically this is exactly what we're
going to do.
Okay.
Um okay. So for this we need to create
sorry guys we need to create uh
installer. Installer needs to be in
particular localization. So under
migration schema
we create installer
uh at first is I will
I will modify it. So you will have
first part first and then I will
uh show you the second part. So first
we're going to have only the installer
uh and it needs to be inside migration
schema and then installer needs to
implement installation from our
migrations bundle
and it will force you to say that this
installer is up to date with migration
number zero. So with no migrations right
now we have only installer and inside
this installer you need to implement the
app function which has schema object and
this is the object that we're working
on. uh and we basically need to create a
table. This needs to be the same as you
have in your mapping on your entity.
Okay. So here we defined that this
entity it's going to be this table. So
we need to create exactly this table and
right now we are creating this table
adding ID column as auto increment
adding title column at string length 64
or format string length to 55 and
setting ID as primary key. after this
and uh we need to execute the migration
uh load command and when this command
succeeds
uh guys who joined uh I just I'm just
showing solution for the previous
practice for everyone to be on the same
page.
Uh so after creating this part we need
to execute the command and when the
command finish we should have in a
database.
Uh okay and now I need to actually
open other project which finally built.
Okay.
in the background I was just doing
platform update for
uh
for this particular step to have it
here. Okay.
So after this
one
>> okay
>> just quick question the folder name uh
and the version uh is needs to be the
same or it is okay
to have you know
the installer schema file. Uh so
installer needs to sit inside migration
schema exactly this directory because
our core bundle that is responsible for
loading my installers and migrations
they are just implemented to search for
those files in particular locations.
>> Yeah agree and in the file you uh
mentioned the version is written v1.0
right and uh under the schema there is a
directory called v1_1. So is it uh needs
to be the same or it's not?
>> Okay, you skipped yesterday and I
actually explained all that.
>> Oh, no wor. So yeah, just to be short,
it's the here we have installer and here
we saying that our code in the installer
is up to date with some migration. In a
moment, the next task in the practice
will be to create uh some modification
to database with migration. So uh this
flow should be more clear for you
because I'm actually showing this step
by step. So in a second I will show you
why and when we create that. If after
that you'll still still have some
questions then let me know. I will try
to uh explain once more. Okay.
>> So just now let me finish because I'm
actually showing you the whole flow how
how it it's created. Okay. So migrations
needs to sit here. At first we'll when
you build the bundle from scratch you
don't need any migrations. You just
create installer because installer is
the file that should consist um the
whole schema for your bundle. Okay. So
all the tables everything that you need
to have in a database uh but in scope of
your bundle. Okay. So first we're just
creating a installer and this means that
migration version is zero zero. So
basically we don't have any migration
yet. Imagine that this directory is not
here yet. Um yeah.
Uh so after this uh we should have in
our database
tableing
usernaming table with all the fields
inside. Okay. add the title title format
and we also do have a serialized uh
field this is connected to the fact that
our entity it's extendable and when
entity is extendable you can later on
add fields to it some of the fields can
be like a column so we create the
separate column but we can also create a
field as a serializable type so it will
not have separate column and that's why
don't worry that you have it here that's
good actually extendable entities should
have this additional columns
in a database. So after doing this first
part, we're just going to have this um
table here created with the installer
and that's it. Uh then um in real life
you would add everything to installer
because that's a project start but in
this exercise I wanted you to uh
exercise how to create migrations. So we
need to kind of imagine that between the
second point to add an installer and
this to add some relation like three
months happened in real life for example
right and then we come back to our
project our client come back to us and
we need to do some functionality which
which requires changing the database
structure again so for this uh we create
migration so migration will consist only
of those small adjustments to our
database schema
um and we'll create our first migration
u addit there. So we need to create many
to one relation from user to user naming
type entity. So owning site will be user
entity. This this is our core entity and
the usernaming type the one that we just
created. Uh so for for this we use uh
extendable um functionality from Oro and
uh to create relation between your
entity and some core entity. All you
need to do is uh
use extend extension service. This is a
ser helper service. You need to inject
it in your migration and just basically
the service consists a lot of methods.
One of them is to create many to one
relation. And this is exactly what we're
going to do. Um so at this point I'm
going to create the first migration. So
directory v1_1
and inside my migration file. The name
of the file here it's up to you. It
needs to implement migration from our
migration bundle. And then because we
want to use extended extension as helper
service to create relation between our
entity and core entity uh we need to
inject it. How? Basically we create a
field and specify setter core bundles
are responsible for putting here
appropriate ser service for you and
implement extent extension aware
interface. Basically this interface will
force you to have the setter there.
Okay.
Uh and then uh here migration looks
exactly the same as uh installer. They
both has this up method. They both have
here the schema and queries. So you can
create post queries. So basically the
code inside it's pretty much the same.
And here we're using our helper to add
many to one relation. We are working on
the schema object owning site table. So
or user then association name uh we
called it name it naming type. So right
now our user entity will have naming
type field and we will have get naming
type set naming type methods um for this
user entity which is core entity target
table. So our usernaming type table and
then we with this you will have uh out
of the box generated many elements. So
we need to know how to display it in the
UI. And this is basically saying that
this particular relation will be
displayed by a title column. We have ID,
title, and format. So title seems like
the best idea. And with those options,
those are Ouro options. You're just
saying that you're using extend uh
functionality and owner custom means
that ARO in the background will
automatically generate a lot of uh
functionality for you. So you're only
creating relation in the background. You
will have it on user view page, edit,
data grid, etc. Okay, I will show you
that in a moment. So after we created
this migration, we need to go back to
our installer, update it with the
update it with the elements from our
migration. So always try to keep your
installer up to date with the latest
migration.
Okay. So we are adding
this relation here too. And then we are
saying okay now my installer is up to
date with migration version one. Right
now I can execute again uh the migration
load command.
And this command in case
you will be looking for it. It's in here
this command. And after this command
finishes, I should have relation between
my entity and uh user entity.
And this will be visible in the or user
table for example because the owning
site is or user. So only there we will
have relation relation field or user.
Okay.
I have this field that goes to my naming
type. Okay.
Um so we have relation and now in the
back office after this uh you should be
able to
um on the users grid you will have this
usernaming type
on the user view page
you will have it here on the view page
and on edit this will be under
additional section here you will have
option to select usernaming tag for our
entity. So this is all you have that you
get out of the box by using owner
custom. This is you telling or hey to
generate a lot of things for me.
Okay. And the last
point was to
um add data fixture. So basically right
now the table is still empty. I see here
some values because I already have this
fixture um loaded. Uh so this is
basically because the table was empty
and we want to fill it with some data
and we want to fill it with those data.
The title is official. Then this is
format title format title format. Okay.
So for data fixtures
they should be under migrations data or
um
directories are important in this case.
And then the name of the file is up to
you. And basically we're we have an
array here. And in for each loop we're
creating those usernaming types filling
them with some data persisting this uh
in the object manager and then flashing
the manager to push those changes to
database. To um for this data fixture to
be loaded we need to execute another
command and it's on this slide.
it's oral migration data load. So after
we execute this command, this fixture
will be loaded and we will have
our table
filled with those values.
Okay, and that was basically
[Music]
all for the nonoptional parts. The
optional part was just basically playing
around with PHP. So we have this
decorator that is here displaying the
name of this user. Let me go to the view
page and we created decorator and in
previous uh practice we are supposed to
just hardcode here first name, last
name, middle name. Okay. And right now
we just want to play around with it a
little bit and
and make sure that instead of displaying
some hardcoded values, it's displaying
values based on selected usernaming
type. Okay, so we have usernaming types
here is my title. Here is format and
this format you need to um change those
keywords with real values. So under the
prefix part just put the real prefix of
your user entity. uh this part replaced
with the uh first name of your entity
and so on and so on. So yeah, so right
now our decorator
here
uh this get name method in which we
check that entity is user because we
want to do it only for the user entity.
Uh so previously we had here hardcoded
entity get first name entity get
something something. Uh so right now we
have created this relation
naming type. So we have get naming type
set naming type type and so on.
And we're fetching the naming type
selected for our user. If it is selected
uh then we're fetching the format
and uh returning appropriate
real values just basically here we have
strdtr PHP method to replace
occurrences of those elements with some
real values right so this is just
basically clean
PHP
and here returning it we return it based
on this selected format. Okay.
So that was the optional part.
Uh okay. Now I'm going to switch to
explain you the next practice. Uh
because yesterday we also did a theory
for
topic number five which is data grid
index page and menu. So right now we
have our entity and we want to create
index page for it. So we will need to
create a data grid for our usernaming
type entity. Uh then we will create
controller with appropriate action and
index html tweak file where we will just
uh display this data grid and at last we
will create menu element to be able to
reach the index page for our usernaming
types. So everything is also still goes
to the usernaming types.
Okay. Closing everything.
Okay. No optional parts here. Um yeah
only
this. So first we need to add index page
with naming type grids with columns
title and format. Uh oh actually
optional part is to implement the format
uh by using a custom template there.
Um example of this optional part you can
find here on the slides about
configuration data grid here is a tweak
type column example. So
in case you get to the optional part
this is how you need to do it.
So first to create index page we need uh
to have controller because we don't have
this controller yet. Don't forget about
adding routing uh file. You have example
here. So basically routing file inside
resources config oro and then add your
definition where you give path to the
controller. Specify that routes are
defined in as annotations and you can
give some prefix. So let's say user
naming types Albert user namings or
whatever you prefer just give it some
prefix. So later on we will for example
have it like here. So not so I'm having
it not admin slash and this is my prefix
okay because index page it's just a
slash.
Uh so we need a controller
and we need a data grid and we need
index page. So for this also please
switch to slides.
Uh because here you have simple grid
example and this is
similar to what you will do. So create a
data grid y file in or subdirectory of
resources config. In data grids name
space name your grid. This name needs to
be unique. It's up to you. Probably
something like user naming greet or
something. Then specify extended entity
name. And then this section for source.
So we're going to fetch everything uh
label, ID, title, and format from uh
this will be our usernaming type entity.
And then inside columns, we will not
have one column called label. We will
have two uh one is title, second is
format.
Uhhuh.
Okay. And then we're going to have
actually nothing more for now. So for
now, you're just going to have really
simple grid. Name it source extended
entity name and columns.
All you need to put is a label for this
column and that's it. Optional part is
to create it with HTML tweak but that's
optional part
and then we need to have controller.
Uh so for the controller you also have
example here entity index page.
Here you have
index action. Of course you need to
create controller first and then create
this index action similar to this one.
Uh do not forget about routing rout
routing file and then the second part
will be to create index template.
Okay, so similar to this one, even much
more much shorter, but I haven't found
any simpler example that this one.
That's why you have a link to it. But in
your real index html tweak, all you need
to do is extend the base one and then
specify the greet name that we just
created in previous step. So basically
line one and three and you're done,
right? Then whenever you enter this page
by the URL still you should see the grid
of uh usernaming types on your index.
Uh then to play around with the data
grid a little bit uh you can add title
uh filter and sortter for the title
field and this will be similar to this
section. So in the filters you need to
do it for the title column and for the
sorters here also for the title column.
So not label but title.
And the last part is to add a menu item
for naming type index page. Right? So
right now you need to type the URL. We
don't want to do that. We want to have a
element in the menu right here. I've
lost my translations for some reason.
Okay. So we want to create this element
and uh to create this element.
Okay.
Uh you need to do it in navigation y
file inside resources config oro. Uh and
then actually I yesterday showed you
this exercise when I quickly added um
this. So I'm going to switch back to my
exercise. Here you have example how to
um create items here. So we need to
create item for this particular element
and then put it in some appropriate
element in the tree.
Uh so similar to what I did yesterday in
this short exercise during the
the session
I added one element
which was called my custom contacts. So
basically under navigation menu item I
created this one item. This is
definition of this item. It's not there
yet displayed anywhere. So right now
when we have this item we can put it in
some appropriate place in the tree. For
me here it was application menu
customers tab. Uh but here you will
actually want to go under user
management. So to check for the tree
because we want it to be here, you can
find the definition of this users
element for example and then check
exactly where in the tree is this
element and in the same place you want
to put our item. Okay. Uh so this will
be the practice for the data grids and
and and and index page. Okay. So right
now uh we have hour and a half for sure
for this practice. We'll see how this
will go. And also in case you have some
issues for yesterday practice for topic
number four with adding the entity and
those migrations etc. Now it's going to
be the time to fix it. So if you have
any questions, any issues, anything,
please let me know. Share screen. We can
fix everything now.
Yep.
>> I have small question about yesterday uh
tractor. So I have created the entity
and it calls somehow very
unusual. So it's some blunt name. Uh I
can share my screen. I control them.
Yep.
>> I'll just stop sharing.
Hey, can let me know you can see it.
>> I can see your screen. Yeah.
>> Okay.
Messages.
So,
so it works like there. So, it's showing
with the blond format. I can see my
name. Uh, however this name, yeah, it's
like there is the name is okay. But I'm
going to the entities.
Sorry
to click.
>> Uh it's uh at the right side at the very
top.
>> Okay. Yeah. Right. The title
>> that that was the heer just
and I see that you have some weird error
like really weird why it's
>> that's about the week. So I have from
the first uh uh training I have the
still having this I have this listener
I'm not sure how to use the tweak so I'm
trying to use the folders so I have
tried to put it there
with the bundles I have tried to have it
within the my bundle it's still not
finding it for this part
>> okay we'll get there in a moment okay I
will explain you
>> so my question is related to this one so
I'm trying to get the last entity.
So it calls like this
also if I will open this it's at moment
it's not clear to me so I thought it's
this one is repres representing the
username naming type and that that is
the type
uh but if take a look there so it's
saying something like
at the different
>> he wanted to go to the view page
probably. So you're asking me how to
translate the those translation keys or
what's actually the question?
>> Yeah. So the first question why name
says so and the second question was
related so so it record but previously I
saw the form where it shows this the
fields and it saying that I have no
fields for this.
Okay. Like like this. So I have fields
but it's blank. But it have three
fields. I'm not sure what it's saying
there. It's blank.
>> Uh okay. So if you don't have the fields
here and you have them in the database.
So either you have some issues with the
mapping on your entities
uh or something wrong happened when you
loaded the migration because here all
the extended entities should be and all
the definitions are taken from the
database both for fields and so on. So
but let's go back to the uh to those
translations to the labels. So this is
very okay that you have because Sora out
of the box creates every for every field
creates some translation key. Uh why?
Because then for each translation key uh
you can specify the real value and we do
this in the messages uh YAML files and
messages YAML files they have also
language uh part. So I would need to
share screen to show you this.
>> Mhm.
uh what I'm talking about because it
will be easier for me to show you
this one.
Okay.
So for every entity uh we do not try to
guess what to display and hardcode some
values based on the field name because
this will be not translatable. Uh so
those uh translation keys are created
and they are created by some particular
rule. So if we have this entity called
usernaming type here the rule will be uh
training dot usernaming dot so namespace
name then bundle name without bundle
suffix. So training dot usernaming dot
name of the entity so usernaming type
dot then entity label plural label
because we need to know how to display
this entity by a single like one
usernaming type or usernaming types. And
then for each field we're going to have
uh title dot label. So label for this
field. Uh and those translations are
created uh automatically those
translation keys by exactly those rules.
Right? So training dot username dot
usernaming type dot title dot label. And
now inside resources translations you
can create messages file.
You can create messages file in which
you specify the real values for those
translation keys. Okay. So we have
training dot usernaming usernaming type
then entity label plural label. You can
have also description you don't need to.
And for each field we have field name
label field name label field name label
and values. Okay. And right now our
application if you have this uh uh the
application will try every time to
translate those long keys that you see
right now with dots uh with the values
based on your localization. So this is
how we actually do all the translations
because right now I can create here
messages
um es for Spanish. Uh put here Spanish
values translations of those field
change the language in the back office
uh from English to Spanish and I will
have all the interface with nice Spanish
words. So this is why we have all those
translations and they are very good that
that they are there. They allow you to
translate every part of application to
different language
and that's the whole mystery behind it.
>> It looks for the whole folder
translations.
I mean I should I register this messages
somewhere?
>> No, you just need to put it in resources
translations and name it exactly like
this. So it's looking for the uh file by
the domain name. So we have messages for
like standard all messages. Then we'll
talk about workflows. So when we create
a workflow there are workflow buttons
etc. So for this we just have separate
files. For JS components we have JS
messages but they all sit in resources
translations and they are all like in
this format.
>> Mhm.
>> And then also in your file wherever you
want. Uh basically if I right click and
copy reference now I have this whole uh
key here. So let me open any
anything to show you because right now
oh actually it's here right. So to trans
to use it in a tweak there is this tweak
uh filter to translate. Okay. So you are
just passing the key and saying that it
should be translated and right now it's
cool because the page title will be
translated and changed to appropriate
value based on the definitions from for
example from here right so this will be
translated to Spanish German whatever
language
user will pick
in the UI
>> and the issue with my fields as far I
And so from your screen is the usage of
the conf field annotation within the
each field
I'm using within the entity.
>> The config annotation
this is actually solution for
>> everything.
Uh yeah, config annotation is only here,
>> right? And for the for the fields, I saw
you have something like config field.
>> Yeah, that would be if I want to add
some additional configuration for per
field, then I would have it there, but
we don't need it yet. We don't want to
do anything custom for the fields yet.
>> Then I'm not sure why I I can see the
entity with the blanks on the fields at
all.
because I have this column like you have
on your screen.
>> Okay. Can you share back the screen? So,
we'll try to
>> check
Okay. And can you show me your uh
installer
Okay. And uh in database you have the
table with three elements.
Okay. You have even loaded the
uh
it.
Okay.
And can you
>> can be kind of care.
>> It's hard to tell what actually
happened. So you can execute one
comment. If it will not help, I will
just ask you to remove cache and just
execute platform update. Okay, so we'll
make sure that like the whole
application is is rebuilt. Okay.
>> Uh so first please execute I'm searching
for the comment.
Okay. So the uh Oro entity config update
I sent it on the chat in the meeting.
So we'll check after this. And yes, you
can remove cache before doing that.
By the way, is it uh okay that it's
always saying this duplicated?
>> I don't see this actually on my site.
Maybe you have some different setting
for your PHP in
>> right. Yeah, it's totally different PHP
any that we have. So
>> yeah, there are some duplications there
are. Yep, they will be removed in next
version and changed with other other
things will be duplicated in next
version.
So yeah, we are marking some things as
deprecated ones in code to make sure not
to use them in next versions. So that's
normal
in case you're asking for this. Um,
okay. It can take a second
by the way because I see that you're
using clear cache command from uh
symfony.
Uh I also strongly advise to just remove
the content of the cache directory uh
because it's faster and you will be sure
that it will remove everything because
there are some aura functionalities that
symfony clear cache is not able to clear
because symfony doesn't know anything
about aura. It's auro that knows about
symfony.
>> Sure. Is this only one folder where
cache or it's cash?
>> No, just one folder. So basically uh
just remember to remove the content. So
v/cashsterisk
and do not forget about this asterisk.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's it.
>> I'm just asking for this in the practice
from the magenta it's also have some
another caches and the radius and the
other stuff and without this common
clearing pretty difficult to get clean
of those other caches.
Yeah. So we do use radius too but
actually locally while developing not
really so often.
Uh and on our server yes because we have
those radius cache etc. we have separate
command there to clear cache. So there
if you were going to use Oro cloud
servers there is going to be separate
command set called called Orocloud CLI
and there is separate uh command to
clear cache and it's clearing
everything.
>> Mhm.
>> So in real life yeah we're going to have
it too. It's taking really
>> yeah it's taking a time. We can continue
while I will just check and let you know
if it work or not.
I think it's taking too long. So let
let's let let's
let let it finish while you can
continue.
>> Yeah, I just basically finished
explaining the practice. So now it's the
time for you to do the practice about
data grids and index page.
So
Okay,
question and
share the screen.
>> Do you see my screen?
>> Mhm. Yes. Um you see I have this uh
migration version one two in the
installer.
>> Mhm.
>> But in the scheme I have uh two and
three.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh so I expect that only two is
executed.
>> Uh the number three will be executed.
But this actually is based not on what
you have in files but what you have in
database. So in case you mixed something
in your database, it will execute
um appropriate elements. So please open
or of migrations
[Music]
or migrations table
and you have like total mix here. So
yeah, we did remove some roles manually
and this happens when you try to trick
application and remove roles manually
from here.
Uh so
okay so basically version is 1.1 so it
will load all the migrations above the
version one_1. So it will load both
migrations for you number two and number
three. It does not care about this
version or what
>> it cares but at the end of processing
the messages. First it checks what your
application is up to date and your
database tell you that the application
is up to date with version 1.1. Then it
executes code and updates the database
from the version from here from
installer.
And this just tells you that the
installer is up to date with some
particular migration. So if you check
your Ouro migrations table right now,
you will see there only one underscore
one which means that all the migrations
above will be executed.
Yeah, I mean um I I I thought that uh
um or it um
it tries to apply the versions uh based
on the installer.
>> No, based on the database, the other way
around. First, it checks what's in the
database because database keeps track of
your application status. The code can be
changed and pushed, right? Yeah, it it
compares database with the installer
version. But I see that.
>> No, it doesn't compare with the
installer. Okay. So, probably I
explained it badly. Uh because this is
not what I meant. It's going to check
only what you have in database. Okay.
Inside the database in Oro migrations,
it's going to check and this version
one_1,
this is your real application version.
Okay. So it base it's basing only on the
database because here you have uh your
build state of your so it will try to
execute every migration above one. So it
now it's trying execute both migrations
for you because you have migration
number two and migration number three.
And actually the error that I saw in the
console is because you're trying to
execute once more the migration number
two which is adding relation for you.
>> Yeah that's that's true. So um it
doesn't care about this version just uh
search for all migrations and executed
one one by one. Um it will execute the
migration number two and migration
number three. It will note that fact
after those migrations will be executed.
It will note that fact in the database
in Oro migrations uh table and later on
when you execute the command it will
again look into or migrations but see
there that uh the migration number three
is already executed. So it will not
execute anything once more. And for the
installer is that that at the end of um
>> migration process uh when you add any
change to migration
then you also want to add it to
installer because next time when someone
will uh execute this from scratch it
will in uh execute your installer and
all the
uh migrations that are above the version
from from the installer. So it's using
this installer get version but in
different situation. When you install
bundle from scratch, it will do the
installer and all the migrations above
the version that you have specified in
the installer. This is happening only
when you don't have any thing in your
database. Right? When you install the
pro the bundle from scratch, it doesn't
exist in a database yet. So when you
install it, there's no entrance about it
in Oro migrations table yet. And in this
particular situation, it's executing the
installer
and all the mig migrations above the
version that you have in the installer
in this particular case only.
>> Yeah, very good.
Thank you.
>> Yep. So now you're trying to uh execute
again the migration number two which is
adding relation between user and
usernaming type and that's why you have
an error because this relation is
already in your database.
>> Yeah.
>> So you need to go to your or migrations
table and just change the version there
to one2.
Thank you.
Yep.
>> Yeah, I saw in some of the sort of core
code it would the migrations would
actually reference methods in the
installer to try and keep things in sync
so there wasn't like duplicated code. So
that might be a way to kind of make sure
>> all the code for your migrations and
installers the same.
>> Yeah, I'm not a fan of this. You can do
this in this particular situation like
we have for this relation. This is uh
actually true. You can reuse the
>> something from uh from the migration.
But in most cases, we don't have
situations like this. We are more like
adding one field, right? So for example,
if my migration
Okay, I'm share screen.
>> Yeah, I wasn't saying this always
applies. As I was just saying in some
cases where the code is going to be
identical rarely very rarely because
even right now if I want to change
anything in here in this configuration
my next migration will have just a query
and I cannot reuse it. Uh it will be
better to go to installer and change it.
And for example if I want to add a
another field like um example like some
field to this string another string like
let's say name. Okay. So my migration
will actually do get table add column
and in the installer I will not I'm not
going to create separate method for
this. I'm just going to add this line
here to add column. Right? So this
applies actually very rarely in this
particular case that we have uh in this
practice it's yeah
>> it's copy pasting but this happens not
so often. Yep.
Yes.
>> Yeah. Jaclyn, uh, some issue with the
routing. So, cannot find the reason I
train that the routing is not exist. Can
I share the screen?
>> Yes. Yes. I I she's just very silent.
I'm not sure. It's probably my side, but
>> I may be also losing my internet from
time to time. Recently, it happens.
>> So, if it's a bad connection, then I can
>> Okay. So when
uh I have this user management with the
navigation but while I'm trying to use
the road instead something stop so it's
saying that the routing doesn't exist
>> and do you have this route
>> I have wrote so
I understood it should match with this
one
>> no that's just some identifier for the
definition of the route uh the route
name is the actual um it should lead to
some particular action in your
controller. Okay. So in this usernaming
type controller you can have multiple
routes. Here we have only index action
but then next session will create a view
action and so on. So the route always
leads to some particular action here.
That's why you have here this uh you can
get rid of ACL ancestor because you
don't have ACL rules yet because you
don't know how to create them because
this is our last topic,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Okay. So the next
>> Oh, so if I will remove template it will
work or not?
>> No, you need to have a template. Okay,
wait a second. So you uh want to create
a route. So you want a name that will
lead to particular action in your
controller. And to do this you use this
at route annotation that you have here
and it is very correct. Uh and the name
this is exactly what you want to use.
Okay. So this route this can be slashed
but for the view this will be view slash
and some parameter. So you need to have
some name for this route and this name
this is exactly what you how you refer
to it. Okay.
>> Uh
>> but it would be something like index.
No, this is a name like your identifier.
>> Mhm.
>> You mean one
>> if you check.
>> Yeah. So the first part is the real um
route that you will type inside in your
browser in the URL. The second is the
name is some identifier that you will
refer to this uh route with this
identifier.
Um and as uh you will see in every our
bundles index action usually is just a
slash right. So you just enter some
particular URL and then you have index
action. If you type slash view slash id
>> then you will have a view of it. Okay.
And if you want to put a prefix then you
do it exactly in your routing yl file
because in your routing uh can you uh
open routing y file here you define that
in this controller you will have further
definitions but all of those urls in the
controller will be prefixed with this.
Okay. So here you want to keep slash.
Then the name of this route is training
usernaming type preferably also at index
there because later on we will create a
view. Uh so you will have training
usernaming type view and so on. Those
names needs to be unique per route.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh and this name of the route that
you're now hovering over this is the one
that you want to use in your navigation
YAML file.
>> It already said like this. Let me check.
It will probably Okay. So basically now
you specify the menu item that leads to
this particular controller action and
this particular controller action
renders some HTML tweak. Okay. And you
don't have
>> in place.
>> Uh no this is actually because can you
switch to your controller?
So you either not extend abstract
controller or you need to add your
controller in your service. So in this
case for you faster will be to remove
the fact that it extends this controller
because you don't need any actions right
now from the base class. You we not
using it here. So no you don't extend
abstract controller.
Okay. This parent class
forces you to basically register your
controller in a DI container in with
services yl file. So faster will be just
not extend. Okay, you can actually go
the other way around later. So you can
okay so this is because it's not finding
the template. So basically it means that
routing works controller works just the
template is not in appropriate place.
Can you switch back to IDE because uh I
think yeah so all the templates and this
comes from the symfony
way
>> are always inside resources views.
>> Okay. So have directory resources views
>> with s at the end.
And right now your uh you need to create
directory that name comes from
controller without controller uh
postfix. So it will be for you
usernaming type.
>> Mhm. Here we have payment term because
we had payment term control
and index html twe
and this index html tweak just needs to
extend our base index and please take it
from some examples. because to be honest
I don't remember exactly the path
[Music]
uh down lower
stop here previous entity index page yes
this index the second link
index template.
Okay, so you need to extend this one and
you also need to have the line number
three because you need to pass the data
grid name to it and parent template will
handle everything.
>> I'm assuming that you created a grid
already.
Not sure that created but uh
[Music]
Mhm. And you
don't have any ACL yet. So ACL resource
it's also something that will not even
be found. So it will be ignored. it will
be ignored or it it will block the data
grid because it doesn't exist.
>> I'm not sure. Maybe you'll get the
error.
>> You can test
and then for the options you also don't
need anything.
Uh so you have title format
you added already sortter and filter. Uh
okay but sortter column you have label
we don't have such a field you need to
in line 24 you need to do the title
because we have title and same for 27
and 30 yes and 27 default sorting is by
label column which we don't have so by
title
yeah here is the column name and write
is which sorter Okay,
looks correct.
Cash.
>> Can you click cash just to be sure?
It shows something. And what
and what was the
additional
optional task?
uh to display the format uh column using
custom template because right now your
format column just consists of uh
value for it. Right.
>> Right.
>> And there is a way to display it by
custom
um
>> and what should be custom? It's like the
ID and then the same
>> you can for me you can put there
anything you want.
>> Okay. So yeah, I just want you to
practice how to do this and what exactly
will be in your tweak up to you.
>> Okay.
>> And how to do it, you can find on the
slides. Uh
you have example on the theory slides.
If you can switch back so I will show
you where is the example how to do it
on the data grid slide.
Um
here on configuration of data grid yes
tweak type colon. Okay. So instead of
putting uh just a label you also need to
type tweak front end type HTML and path
to your custom tweak template you can
pick what this template how this
template looks uh in a course
>> right it's in columns.
So the question for this this twe so
actually I'm not sure how so this way
I'm not sure referred to I take it
automatically but the question is so and
previous part I have the same issue with
this three for the listener because it
was not finding it
>> so it needs to be also in resources
views always and then you have this
symfony at notation to for the paths
Okay, let let me put it there.
Uh, we have format sign.
>> The label was okay. Actually,
>> that there is a label as well.
>> You always have a label because you need
to specify the heer for the column. So,
label.
>> This part is not clear to me. So, I'm
using the U. So it's it should be
something like uh naming
>> training usernaming. So this is always
namespace plus a bundle name but without
a bundle postfix. Why it's called like
this? You can go and ask symphony
because that's their rule. Uh so it's
always this and usernaming without the
bundle. And then the last the the rest
it's actually the path relative to what
you have inside resources views.
Yes, without
>> and this at training usernaming gives
you the entrance to resources views
inside your
>> actually I think I can put the data grid
as well.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That it's probably
good idea because this is just a path to
resources views and then you have some
data grid elements.
Yeah, under the column it's Yeah, now
you have you can check in the
>> Yeah, let me check
>> but I can also tell you that uh in all
those templates that goes to the
um data grid cells you have always two
variables inside. One is value and this
will give you just the cell value and
second is record which will give you the
whole row.
So if you just want to display
uh value then
so here you have
but you don't need any link I think this
example it's way too complicated.
>> Uh yeah but it put me on
using macros. I'm not sure what this
macro is doing.
>> You're importing another tweak because
later below in the next line you're uh
using the method from this macro which
is called entity view link. You don't
need anything like this here. So again
here you have two variables value which
is the value of the cell and then record
which is the whole row. So you have two
variables and you can basically display
anything from them.
attribute will try to fetch the format
from the value and value is already
uh plainfield.
So you cannot use attribute method on
the value because it's a plain field.
>> Mhm.
>> But so you want to use record. So you
have two variables value and record.
uh record and on the record you have
this get value method. Uh I will send
you some example maybe because it's hard
to
without sharing a screen to show you
record
[Music]
get value.
Okay.
This is maybe too complicated
example but yeah why not.
So basically the idea is that all in all
those templates you have two
uh variables. First you can just echo
value and this will do exactly the same
as if you don't have any template
because this will just display the value
of the cell but uh second you have also
this record on which you can do the get
value and the record is your whole row.
So here I can also get the value of the
ID or title because we're supposed to be
in the format column. Okay. So this is
how you get any value from your row and
this is the cell value. Basically this
[Music]
I'm getting this value and then getting
the format done.
>> A format value you have actually under
the main value uh because we are inside
the format uh row. Mhm.
[Music]
Okay, that changes in
like this.
And then the question, what was wrong
with this one? Uh
it was
listener it's under folder but however
it works. Um
>> the path was incorrect here. Again you
need to use this notation. So first
start it with at
and then type training usernaming
and then everything that is related to
resources view
>> and how I should refer to the resources
which in the template or I cannot do
this
I mean I have this templates and then I
try to
>> but you don't put it here why you put it
outside of the bundle you stick into
your bundle then it will be even easier
to move the
>> right
>> functionality always
>> as far understood. Yeah, I probably
there is some general templates like we
can use.
>> Yeah, this is the general templates
directory but you want to use it only if
you would like to override some
templates from the vendors,
>> right? So you cannot go to the vendor
file and just edit it there because it
will be overrided on every composer
install. Uh but uh that's why we have
this global templates and then here you
can override core.
By the way, how it will happen if I will
have this bundle actually it's front
naming of the bundle but uh if I don't
have the template within my bundle but I
have it in template will it take it or
not?
>> It will first look uh for it inside this
global templates directory and then it
looks always in your bundles.
>> So it's fine if I will rename just uh
this one. Not really because this is
your custom code. So try to keep your
custom code in your SRC.
So from the point of view, yes, it will
work. But from the
>> right yeah I mean
>> yeah yeah from this point of view yes
this should work but still
>> yeah just checking. So and there is no
way and there is no way. So if I will
want to take this one can I specify it
in the string somehow?
like bas without anything.
>> I mean if I want to take this one, can I
put it like this one?
>> Uh yes.
>> This base HTML tweak it probably have
some double columns before it. We using
it in some places. So I can check how to
reach this file
base but base HTML quickly it's loads
your whole page. So you probably get
some infinite loop or something.
[Music]
I'm not really sure how to reach the
tweak file
here.
>> It was not clear for me with this event.
So tried to use this events. I didn't
find this events at all. So the
scrolling events I tried to find it
within the events but
but I didn't find the event I have
specific there within the events.
Not sure what you're asking for where
you wanted to
>> find the events.
The event is uh dispatched by core
bundles.
So if you want to find out where the
events are dispatched then it will be
somewhere in our UI.
>> I found the way in the code where the
[Music]
I'm not sure what this one is.
>> This is the index html page that
>> Okay, it's for controller, right?
Let's
have it like this.
And let's remove this one.
Yeah, it worked.
However, so my question was about the
event was like and try to open this one
and then uh this event is working for
the
should I specific head yeah there. So
it's working for this
on update this one for this
event.
>> Mhm.
>> However, I cannot find this event there
within the event.
[Music]
>> I'm trying to search for it. It doesn't
look when I'm trying to scroll down to
find at least something.
So this will be UI event and it's called
onscroll data or something like that.
>> Yeah. And I'm not sure is it the bug
from my site or not but it's it's never
ending this
element with the same
calls
debug vault. It's like it's
always checking if you can see this. So
it will be
loading and loading. No.
>> Yeah, it's loading. Yeah. And so I'm
trying to find at least something but at
least u but it's it's not looking for
this as well. So I can only see the
kernel request de kernel controller
de and so on and then it's about 10 of
them. It's not much of this events at
all.
>> So that's why I'm not sure how to find
this event which I'm trying to use.
>> Okay. So um let me share my screen. I
will this show you this again.
[Music]
two and
this was on the first.
So the idea behind this is that every
our every page in the back office of
course is uh dispatching some event and
this event always starts from this what
you found. Um let me open this
here.
If you dig in deeper and go uh to the
index page for example and so on, you'll
see that later somewhere there there is
this event dispatch and it always starts
with this or scroll data before.
>> Mhm. I I found it right.
>> Mhm. I'm not sure if it will be instant
toolbar. I can check on my site in a
moment. Uh but basically
uh yes. So
this is our bundle. This is extension
and it's always when rendering data it's
always dispatching this particular
event. Okay. And page identifier you can
uh check it uh because this will be the
ID parameter that is passed to the data
block uh on our templates. So if I open
any
uh HTML tweak
let's say for business unit
maybe not good example
okay
user
bundle
[Music]
this
I'm not in the correct place. Just give
me a second.
Platform. This is user.
Okay.
Okay. So let's say view action
because we were supposed to add
something to the user view page. So this
is the template that is rendering the
user view page, the back office user
view page. And here in the content data
block we are passing some ID and then
later in the parent template this I data
f is passed up and up and up and at the
end it gets to this extension and we're
executing we're dispatching um event
like this before dot and this will be
this ID. So if you want to add something
to this particular page, you need to
create a listener that will listen to
uh ori scroll data before dot and then
just check the identifier of your page
and this is what will happen. This is
how you can get it from here.
>> I can check in a moment on my site uh
later if I will have it in events in the
symfony toolbar
but I'm not sure if it will be there.
Maybe I'll have the same scroll issue as
you. So, normally when I want to do
something like this, I'm going to the
template that I want to inject something
to check.
>> Yeah, it was more general question if I
want to find the exact event. But yeah,
so far I can see it's not always work
this book tools. But yeah, any case,
thanks for explanation.
check my toolbar actually
just because I'm curious.
It's not finding it for me either
in here.
>> For me that was an edit page but in any
case you see I can see that the set of
them is also not big for you.
This is actually a tweak function. Maybe
safar is not noticing dispatching this
event.
>> That's what I thought. So some some some
actions which happens on the front end
is not getting there at all.
>> Because this is basically with tweak
extension and we're just executing this
tweak
function and inside it's uh
dispatching this event. So,
okay
guys, any questions from
others?
How is what's the status on your site?
Uh take admir
um was there any particular
thing we should do in the custom
template on this optional or was it just
to should can we just display the value?
Oh I see you had a little example
>> display the value make it bold make it
red whatever just for you to know how to
put HTML tweak templates there.
>> Mhm. Okay.
>> Yeah. So for this example it doesn't
matter for me but we use it for example
when we have the yes no value instead of
displaying zero one or something weird
we display nice uh icons right so in
this case you will use the tweick
template and just display based on the
value display nice tick or x
>> okay
>> okay so is it okay on your site do you
have does that agreed with index page
Yes.
>> Okay.
What about you?
>> Um, yes, I finished this part. I had a
lot of issues with translations. I'd say
it's quite magic magical. Um, yeah,
it's hard to to sometimes it's not
obvious where the values should be
placed and how to to get to bind it
correctly with the data grid. Um,
>> do you have any particular question?
Maybe I can explain this.
One second.
[Music]
Let me share my screen.
>> Do you see my screen?
>> Almost. Yes.
Um so
um
when I uh when I worked on this grid uh
sometimes I had messages in the here in
the translation section so that some
parts are not translated like this one
or
and uh
if I go to that to messages is it also
requested me to translate this one
though I don't use it anywhere
uh it just said that should be
translated
>> so this actually comes from the grid
because we have this uh functionality on
the grid that we are able to specify the
view
okay remember I have shown you when
showing data grids on this uh uh contact
grid
there were where contacts uh from like
all contacts view at the top left of the
data grid there is the this drop list uh
where you can specify that you want to
see the all view or you can also for
example filter this grid by some filter
and save this view. Uh yeah this is
exactly this all usernaming type drop
list that you have below there
and you can now for example filter the
greet by title something
>> here here
>> yes so you are able and this is out of
the box uh functionality of the data
grid that is loaded automatically until
you say that you don't want it. Okay. So
you can disable showing this for the
data grid. But out of the box if you do
nothing this will be here because uh
this is this nice option that now you
can for example filter this grid by
title
>> something and then save this particular
view. So later on you can come to this
page and just switch the view and only
have like I've shown you the context
from some particular state. Right? So
this is this functionality of be
building prefiltered views of your data
grid.
>> Yeah. Also the question all these labels
when I when we put this path um it tries
to to search it in the messages list.
Correct.
>> Mhm. And if its translation is not found
then it's displaying the whole key.
>> Okay. And uh there is also in the system
there is a translations grid.
>> U what's the relation between this grid
and that
>> so first you have everything in a file
and uh it is loaded from the file uh
then later your client can come here and
change it from the UI. But you need to
remember that whenever somebody changed
something from the UI then that this is
higher priority. So later on you will
not be able to update this value from
the file anymore. So in the translation
files in the YAML file you have the
initial values and prefer preferably
always all the values. Uh but yeah there
is an option to check it here also to
translate it but to be honest we mostly
use it to check what's the translation
on the page.
It's always best to have everything in
files.
>> So you can check it change it from here.
But remember that once you overwrite it
but from the UI you will not be able to
like specify it edit it. I mean if you
edit YAML file in code it will not not
take you will not see result right
always what is changed from the UI is
more important. Uh so example I don't
see my my
uh my fields
>> and
>> in this grid is it fine or how how can I
add this um
[Music]
no
You should have it here.
[Music]
that you don't want to have it there.
I will double check on my site, but
>> username type something.
Hm.
I searched for usernaming type and I
have everything.
Let's try searching just by training.
Yeah,
not really sure. Maybe you can execute
the load translation command because uh
probably that's something just cached or
not regenerated because I see
everything. So you should see it too.
And the comment will be something like
uh translations
we have or translation load.
Okay, we have this comment
copy
this one or translation
load. So if you can just in console of
course.
Okay. Can you check for
the auto complete working?
>> Yeah. So probably just something was not
generated properly.
>> Yeah, it's quite logical that it's not
loaded automatically because I put it
into files but not loaded
>> in dev mode. uh when I added do any
change on messages yl file it's loading
it's there right so it in def mode it
should be loaded it should not be like
cached but some from time to time it
happens that it just gets stuck at some
point and you need to manually force
Okay, it looks like something wrong in
my configuration.
It doesn't load automatically. Okay, but
I've got the idea of these translations.
>> Thank you.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. Are all the other parts okay on
your side
the index because you asked about
translation but yeah I actually saw that
you have data agree and all this uh okay
guys so basically
you all finished
the practice right so let's do the break
and we'll start with next topic let's do
12 minutes break back 20 plus my four
Okay guys, uh please let me know if you
are here.
I will share my screen.
Okay.
Okay. So our next topic uh and actually
the only theory topic for today it's
going to be about the whole uh entity
validation and search. So we stopped at
creating entity then we added index page
and then actually we need to do
something more with it and this will be
the whole um so how to
uh create it in auro uh
I'm sure you all know what crat is so
let's uh proceed
uh so for the view page this is a read
so to display a view page of entity we
need to fetch fetch this entity and then
display it right. Uh so normally just
somewhere in the PHP service to fetch
entity uh from the database we use
repository for this and then uh there is
this find or find one by or any other of
those methods that you can use to
retrieve your entity from the database.
Uh so normally if you'd like to do it in
any PHP class
uh you would get just repository for
your particular entity and then try to
find one by some parameter.
Uh for the controller we actually
we're not doing this.
Uh for the controller we create view
action for first and then inside this
view action.
uh we use uh symfony param converter to
help us to fetch the entity because for
the view action
the only thing you need to do is to have
the proper type hinting and uh
Stephanopar converter will basically by
the type of the variable here we'll
fetch this particular entity by its ID
and ID is passed as a parameter in the
URL and we'll fetch this entity from
database for us and put it under this
variable. So we'll be just able to use
it for the view action in Oro. All you
need to return is basically this entity
variable that will be filled with your
entity that you want to view.
Uh the route annotation here you'll see
that in all our actions we have the same
um uh routes. So for index it was always
just a slash and then for view we always
put view and then the ID parameter.
Okay. So we need to pass in the URL the
ID of the entity that we want to view.
Uh again this root needs to have a name.
This name needs to be unique. So you'll
see this convention uh in all our
controllers that for example for the
payment term entity we have routes like
oral payment term index for the index
then or payment term view for the view
and so on and so on. Additionally here
because this ID is supposed to be a
number decimal, you can add some
additional requirements
um for this parameter
and the template the same as we had for
the index. Uh it will look inside
resources views then payment turn
directory based on the controller name
and then view HTML tweak. Okay. So if
you don't pass any path here, it will
automatically try to find this template
inside resources views payments term uh
view html tweak
uh okay and simple example of this uh
view page.
So the view page let's check the
contacts
for example.
The view page uh normally consists of
some elements like here we have
breadcrumbs here we have heather with
also kind of bread breadcrumbish thing.
Uh then we have some additional
information those are called called
stats. Here we have buttons and here we
basically have the whole content. So our
view uh template actually consists of
those elements uh of those blocks. For
the view template, we also have the base
template uh
that you can extend. And for this
template, you just need to pass uh some
variables. Most of all, you need to pass
the data that you want to um display.
Uh okay. So, what uh blocks we have
here? Actually, not all of them that are
here. Uh but for example, we have a
block uh stats.
And this is for payment term it's empty
stats block it's this one which has
created at and so on. So for the
uh payment terms
we don't have the stats block here
because we just emptied it. Okay. Then
we have page heer and page heer uh kind
of have a breadcrumb too. page header is
actually this p this part but as you can
see it's also has a link to main page so
it's kind of
heer plus a little bit breadcrumb thing
okay
and the most important part for us this
will be the content data block
and content data block displays all this
here all this content which is divided
on blocks and blocks can have sub
blocks. Uh so how to pass this part? Uh
so inside content data you need to say
what you want to display and pass it
into the data uh variable and data
variable has all the blocks under the
data blocks variable. So actually here
you want to pass all the blocks that
with sub blocks that you want to be
displayed.
Uh of course you need to give this page
some identifier for this uh scroll data
event and call parent. So our parent
template will take all those information
and render the page for you based on
those information. How to define data
blocks? As you can see here, this is a
payment term which is very simple
because we have basically one block
um view page sorry view page uh one
block with
general information
uh and then this activity part is
actually added by activity bundle. Okay.
So in the original payment term view
page we'll just have the uh general
information block. And to render the
general information block um
our data blocks because we can have
multiple.
So we can have multiple instances of
this one and each block because this is
block. If I had a second one then here
below this I will have
another element like this and this block
has a title. Title goes to this what we
have
here. So general information is the
title of my blog. Then we can also
specify if on the page load uh it should
be active block or not
and this block can contain one or
multiple sublocks. Okay, that's why here
we have only one entrance but I can
actually have multiple lines like this
and specify data for each sub block. In
this first sub block, we render this
data. And this is basically just some
tweak variable that was filled with
HTML. Um here with using some specific
oro widget render. Uh but this can be
also done just normally.
Uh I hope this is
another example.
Oh, like here. Okay. So into the task
information variable, we're just
basically rendering some HTML
by specifying HTML or by using some
existing
um methods. Uh so in our or UI bundle
and in some other bundles, you will find
that we have some tweak macros defined
for you. And this UI macros here they
consist a lot of really nice helper
methods like how to render property uh
render some button and so on. You can
later check what we have there. Uh so
for us the important is just to render
property because this is usually what we
have uh here. So to render the property
this way that we have in the back
office. So this part on the left gets
some appropriate its appropriate element
and it will be styled exactly this way.
You can import this Oro UI
and use render property method. First
parameter is a label. Second parameter
is a value and for the label also you
can use translations.
Uh so once you rendered this HTML
to this variable you basically put it
into super block. Okay. So this is same
thing.
Okay.
Uh and then what to do if you'd like to
render a grid.
So to render a greet
um
we have a macro for you.
Uh so you don't need to uh kind of guess
how to render it. Uh just import our
macro and our data grid macro has a
method called render grid and this
method
uh all you need to do it pass is pass
the grid name there. Okay. And this will
be enough. This will render your grid.
Uh so what we are doing here we'll
actually rendering this to some variable
and this customer grid is then added to
a block called customers as a first s
block. Okay. So this is actually the
customer tax page.
Okay.
So here as you can see we have the
customer block which is empty. This
means that this data grid is empty and
we have second data grid of all the
customer groups that have this tax code
assigned. Okay. So we have two data
grids and general information and two
data grids. So here we have the
general information rendered into some
variable then added as a block. Then we
have first customer grid and then
customer group grid and they are both
added as a second and third block.
Uh now what you can do more so there are
some additional parameters like those
here that you can put uh to render data
grid uh pass to render data grid method.
Uh so actually in this case we are not
displaying the grid of all the
customers. Okay. because I have plenty
of customers here and my data grid is
empty. Why? Because this data grid is
actually displaying list of customers
but filtered by a wear condition where
when this customer has this particular
tax code assigned. So how to do this?
How to actually pass some variable
because we need to pass this tax code ID
to our customers greet and use it in the
wear condition. So how to do this? Uh
for this we have a second
parameter which is an array of
parameters that you want to pass to data
grid. Here will be this parameter name
and later by this name you will use it
in your data grid. And here is the
value. We are on the view page of our
tax code. So we're just basically
passing ID of our entity. And under this
variable in our grid, we're going to
have this customer tax code ID. Okay, as
you can see as third parameter, you can
add some CSS class etc.
Uh and now how to use it? So we are
passing customer tax code in the
customer tax code ID variable. And let's
see how this variable is used.
Okay.
So in my grid
uh in the source section beside the
query I have also bind parameters
section. So I need to first say that I
want to bind this parameter to my data
grid. And this is the parameter name
exactly the same that we filled in here
with some value.
And now I can use this parameter in my
where statement. So in the query I'm
adding where and where the tax code on
our customer entity is equal to this. So
this way we have the customer grid but
filtered with this additional work
condition. So not all the customers but
only those who have this tax code
assigned.
So binding using
and passing.
Okay.
Okay. So, what about next actions? Uh
while explaining create and update, I
will kind of jump between slides because
they share a lot of code together. Uh so
creating and updating is pretty much the
same. Uh just the difference is where we
start because for create we're creating
new entity and for update we need to
fetch existing entity and then fill it
with some data. Okay. So for the create
you create an object fetch uh fill it
with some data like here set label that
persists this uh this entity and flash
so save this fact to the database and
normally with a PHP code
this is exactly this example we're
creating entity filling it filling it
with data persisting and flashing for
the update this will be uh pretty
similar just f first we need to fetch
this entity fetch existing entity and
then modify data right so basically it's
pretty much the same what happens in the
controller
uh let me close those okay
uh so for the controller we have two
separate actions we have one action for
create and separ second action for
update uh for the create the route is
without parameters because we're
creating new entity.
Uh so we're going to have a route. Then
you'll see that our naming convention
gives us only always create.
We always name it the same way. Then you
need to put a name to your route. So in
our case, this is or payment term
create.
And inside action, it doesn't have any
uh parameters. And then inside creation
actually the same thing happens as for
the update the that's why we didn't copy
paste the code twice but we divided it
into separate update method and as you
can see for the update for the create we
use the same piece of code just here
we're creating a new payment term so new
entity and here we are fetching some
existing one. Okay.
Uh, yep. So basically I will switch jump
here. So for the action uh update action
uh the route our naming convention is
/update and then we need to pass the ID
parameter because for update we're
actually updating existing entity. So we
need to fetch it the same way we fetched
it for the view um name. And because
we're passing some parameter, we can
also add requirements here.
Um,
and for the update, similar as we had
for the view, we use Symphfony param
converter. We just pass the uh type of
our variable and Symphfony is fetching
payment term with this particular ID
from the database and saving to this
payment term variable and we can
basically use it.
Um
second part is a template.
So update
has its own template and create is using
in our case our create is using update
template. Uh why? Because those
templates will be actually the same
because both for create and for update
we're rendering a form type.
Just for update we're passing their uh
not empty entity. So this form will be
automatically bound with existing
values.
Uh and we may have just uh so from the
tweak point of view we are rendering
form because binding is happening in the
background in the PHP code. So from the
tweak template nothing changes regarding
rendering the form. In both casing cases
we just rendering the form. Uh the only
difference will be for example that it
will be different action uh uh form
action or for example for the update we
will display delete button for create it
doesn't make sense so we don't display
delete button
yeah and that's why they share template
and that's why for the update you see
that we only specify annotation at
template so it will Search for resources
views
resources views then payment term
and then update HTML tweak and here we
have this template.
I will switch to it in a second. But for
the create
it will try to find uh resources views
uh then payment term and then create
HTML tweak and this template doesn't
exist because we want to reuse reuse
update template. That's why here
in the add template annotation we
actually specify the path to the
template. So using at annotation
or payment term and then payment term
update HTML tweak right. So our create
action is using update HTML tweak
um template.
Uh this template
basically also have some uh base
templates that we have in Oro UI. It's
update HTML tweak. uh then we can have
some buttons and as you can see we are
here
uh checking for something that is
granted and I'm actually
looking for difference between
okay so that's actually the only
difference between uh create and update
so based on the fact if ID it's there so
for creating it will not be there for
updating it will be there. We will have
different form action and that's it. The
rest is the same. We display some
buttons and hi there and in our content
data we are displaying
one row. Yay. That's payment term.
That's why it's so simple.
Okay. Let's go to create one row. uh
sorry and form errors
and that's it.
Uh then let's go back to our controller.
Uh so what's actually happening? Uh we
rendering a form and then whenever
somebody click save we need to submit uh
validate submit the form and save it to
database. So you can create your custom
helper for this sorry custom form
handler for this if you want. Um if you
need to do some custom
things like send email in the process or
do some other stuff. But if you just
want to save the data as is based on
your entity and form type then you
actually can just use our
update handler that we have ready for
you. So, and this is happening here
because this payment term entity is
really simple. We just want to save the
label as is and that's it. So, in our
update method, we're passing to it
either new empty entity or existing one
and in our update method
uh first we're creating a form and this
method create a form it's actually
coming from uh the parent abstract
controller. So, in this case if you want
to have the update action
you actually need to start extending the
abstract controller from
uh symfony framework bundle.
Uh so first you create a form
based on the class and based on the
entity. So this form is already either
empty or or with some data of existing
entity and then you need to use update
method of our update handler facade
service. So this is the update form uh
handler service that is ready for you to
use. All you need to do is basically use
it and use the update method on it. For
the update method or the only things you
need to pass is the entity that you want
to save the form that you want to save
it with and then whenever it will be
saved and uh everything will be okay
then third parameter is a success
message.
Okay. Why we're passing the form?
Because we're submitting entity through
the form for example to execute
validation.
Uh so for simple entities
just use update handler facade and
you'll be good to go.
Okay. Uh the last action is delete. And
normally in PHP code you will fetch the
entity then uh remove it mark it as to
be removed in the manager and then
flashed. So save this fact delete it
from the database. Okay. So this is how
you would do it.
Remove and flash. Okay.
Uh this is how you would do it in code.
uh in controller actually you don't need
to do anything to have it. There is a
way to have this delete button uh for
free both
here on the data grid or here in the
view page. And this is because we have
this global delete method uh defined. Uh
and this global delete methods has just
some preconditions. If those uh
preconditions are met, then this button
will appear on view page or on data
grid. What are those preconditions? Uh
so our global delete action is checking
existence of this route name here. Okay.
So this is the config section of our
entity
and uh this config is basically there in
the database as serialized uh inside the
serialized uh column and all this
configuration is fetched is actually uh
pushed to our actions and action checks.
If there is a name route on your entity
then the delete button will be
displayed.
um why it's searching actually for this
because for example when I'm on a view
page and I will delete this uh entity it
needs to know where to redirect me okay
I cannot stay on this page because this
entity will not exist anymore after I
click delete so it do needs to redirect
me somewhere so it needs to have some
information and actually our delete
button is based on this information
here. So, it will redirect me to this
route. This is actually task
uh not payment term. Uh but yeah, the
idea is the same.
Um, and yes,
>> had a question on those. So that at
config, if I go and change my entity and
I add configuration there, do I just run
the like the entity config update and
I'm good or do I need to build a
migration to make those changes as well?
>> You just need to run this command and
this will be applied to database.
>> Okay, so it'll it's just I just need to
update the entity. I don't need to build
a migration to
>> it will depend actually because for
those elements like here you don't need
to do anything um additional but if you
will try to uh enable attachments
right so you need to enable it here but
for the attachments remember that you
also need to create a relation between
your entity and file entity
>> okay
>> so in this particular case you also need
to have a migration but for example for
data audit security for specifying those
values you don't need to do any
additional
>> okay so the configuration itself will
update but
>> if we need to add dependent pieces
that'll have to happen we would have to
do that anyways
>> database structure you will need to do
it manually
>> we would have to do that for attachments
anyways even if they were specified here
we'd have to have a migration to do that
even if we were doing it up front like
it's that's not an update issue it's
just you have to do that always. Okay.
>> Mhm. Yeah. So, this will just turn some
functionality on or off. If you turn
attachments here on and don't create the
migrations, then go to this entity,
you'll probably get a lot of errors
because it will try to render some
relation that doesn't exist. So, it will
show you that you forgot to add
migration.
>> Okay, understood. I just wanted to make
sure. I was wrestling with this
yesterday and I wasn't sure if what I
was doing here was working or if I had
to write a migration. So, I actually
ended up doing both. But um the
migration was redundant. Then
>> uh during executing migration one of
those post migrations it's actually
updating it.
>> There is this one post migration that is
called uh update entity config
something.
>> Okay.
>> You remember this long list of post
migrations, right?
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. And one of them it's actually
doing this. So when you run migration
you kind of don't need to additionally
execute this uh config update config
command. But if you add for example this
line then this is not connected to any
migration or anything. You need to
execute the commands to update config
and you're good to go.
>> Okay. Sounds good. Thank you.
>> Sure.
Uh okay. And uh I will show you now the
definition of this delete action. uh but
I will not dig deeper because actually
this operations functionality is part of
the workflows topic and we're going to
talk about it in the details in the
workflow topic that will be next week.
Uh so just to show you uh how
basically it looks we have this
functionality called operations. So here
we have a list of operations and those
are some definitions for um
interaction with user and basically all
each operation at the end renders some
button that you can click and do
something. Uh so why does delete action
can will appear on every data grid and
for every entity view page because this
operations
this operation has option to specify it
and here we have for all entities for
all data grids. If we specify it to true
this action uh will try to render it for
every entity on the view page and for
all data grids. Yeah, for all data
grids, uh there are other options you
can specify that not for all entities
but only for some specific ones and so
on. I will show you all those options
during the workflows topic. Uh and then
the important part for us is this
preconditions. So whenever they are met
the button will be rendered and here we
have actually two preconditions. So we
can either put this uh name route or
also specify the grid name. So this is
the second way uh to do it. Uh it will
be hard for me to show you the example
because basically we're using the first
condition like in 99% of percent of our
entities. Um so
this condition this precondition is met
because we
added this to our config and because of
that and the fact that we have for all
entities true and for all data grid true
that this delete button will appear on
your data grid and on the entity view
page and will be working and this will
all happen for free. All you need to do
is specify this part and this should be
route name for your index page.
Okay.
Um the second part it's about
validation. So this is nothing custom to
Oro. We don't have anything totally
nothing custom here. Uh we're using
everything that Sona gives us. It's
enough. So nothing custom.
Uh so we use validation to validate
entities. Um and we can assign
validation constraints to whole entity
or only for some fields. So for fields
you will have constraints like not blank
um length or something and for entities
you will have probably more complicated
constraints. Uh if you need some custom
validation you can implement it and uh
bind it to your entity.
Um this validation
sits in resources config validation. As
you can see it's not inside or subd
directory because this is not orura
functionality but this file you don't
need to load additionally like services
or anything. Okay. This is some
validation yam configuration and
symphony handles loading it. Okay. You
just need to create the file and symfony
will load it for you.
um and uh whatever is specified here all
the constraints they are automatically
triggered on form submission. Okay. So
this uh validation will also happen uh
we will talk about API topic next week
but our API it's actually when you do
the post request and create some entity
it's submitting it through the form so
validation will also happen there. Um
but if you're adding your entity from
the custom code some some I don't know
PHP class helper whatever uh and you
want to validate it then remember that
there is this validator service and you
can always use it to manually validate
um your entity in case you're not
submitting it through the form
and how does validation looks
Okay, so validation YAML file. Then you
need to put the fully qualified class
name of your entity. Then we have two
sections, constraints and properties.
Inside constraints, you put the
constraints for the whole entity.
Uh and in the properties we have it per
field. Okay. So my contact has a first
name, last name, gender, birthday and so
on. And uh those are constraints like
length etc. uh all the constraints those
short names they are coming from
Symphona so we don't need to put the
whole path because Symphona handles it
just by name uh but as you can see if
you create your custom constraint then
you need to put the whole path to your
constraint for this file to recognize it
okay there are plenty already um
available constraints Yes.
>> Yeah. You wanted to ask a question?
>> Yeah. Sorry was on mute. So this
validation it happens on form level only
or on save level entity save level each
time no matter if I have it in migration
or whatever.
>> No only on form validation. It's not
bound to uh entity manager. So it's not
bound to persist or anything like that.
It's bound to form.
>> Mhm.
Uh okay.
Yes. Uh I was saying that you have a lot
of already existing constraints like
those default ones like length, choice,
not blank etc.
uh then we can also here validate
relations. So my contact has some
addresses and this is collection of
addresses and this there is this special
validator. So if you want to make sure
that whenever you save the contact
we will also validate this address
entity itself. Then you use this
constraint called valid without any
parameters. This is just telling you
that the address itself as an entity
will be validated whenever you save the
contact entity
and some other additional constraints.
Uh how to create this constraint?
This is also not sure if we have here
link to anywhere. No, because this is
symfony. So I I didn't give you a link
here. But basically
basically
okay
uh we have
constraint called has contact
information
and we have a validator that is used to
validate this constraint. Okay. The
constraint needs to extend constraint
class from Symphona validator component.
And here will be um message that will be
displayed for this
if we'll have an error and here get
targets. Uh so this can be either a
class constraint or this can be
property. Okay, in our case, this is
going to be a constraint that it's
checking uh the whole entity. That's why
we marked it as
class constraint.
And then uh by default it will be
validated by the validator that's name
is the same like has contact information
validator.
This is also a symphony rule that it
will look for basically validator named
the same way with validator postfix. And
here we need to specify the validate
method in which you basically are
checking for something and then adding
an error adding violation in case
something is wrong. Okay. And this
constraint validator needs to implement
constraint violating from the symphony
validator component.
Uh and
and our constraint needs to be
registered in the DI container.
Uh ah no, it doesn't need to be anymore.
That's why I was
Yeah, it doesn't need to.
be registered anymore.
So our constraint validator, remember
naming is important, needs to be the
same. And that's pretty much it. And
then you need to use the path to the
constraint
inside
our validators uh validation YAML file.
Okay.
And the last element is a search that
will Yes.
>> Uh sir, can you explain the
uh can you explain the idea of that
constraint file? I didn't get it. Why do
we need that? If we have validation,
what is constraint then?
>> Constraint is uh it's a check. You
you're checking your entity against some
rules
and this is basically called constraint.
But the validation isn't the same.
>> Uh first you define a constraint. So uh
the the the check and then you specify
in the validator you specify the details
of this check. So this will be just the
name we want to check if has if this
entity has contact information and this
constraint
uh the validator for this particular
constraint. So for this particular check
rule I don't know the synonym for the
constraint word to be honest.
>> So uh I mean if constraint is not uh set
for the data will not work or what
>> you need both. So we need a constraint.
So the and then you'll say in your
entity that you want to validate your
entity against this particular
constraint and this constraint cannot
leave uh standalone. The constraint
needs to have a validator behind it that
is basically doing all the job.
>> So to have this you need actually both.
First you need to have a constraint and
then a validator that is basically doing
the job.
Um could you open abstract constraint
just to see what method does it
providing? What is it?
>> Uh
this one.
>> Yeah,
just uh
why do I need normalize? Oh yeah. Okay.
Normal it can be used to normalize
data before validation. All right, got
it.
Do you want me to open the base class
for validator too?
>> Um, no. Thank you.
>> Okay.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh, I just want to double check. So,
constraint is specifically used for the
validation uh of uh purpose of showing
some validation message. How what's the
basic purpose of this?
>> Uh yeah. So constraint is basically to
validate your entity against something
to check something and if this check is
not met you're adding a violation and
passing a message then this message
whenever you submit the form and this
check
will be executed but it will not match.
You will have this error message
displayed on the page.
Okay.
>> Okay.
Uh okay. So search
we have separate search index for the
storefront and for the back office. So
whenever you see website search think
about storefront. Whenever you see just
search think about back office also
gathering data to the search index. It's
totally different there. It's much
easier for the back office.
Uh so in general um in the search index
we have our entities and then we're able
to uh
search for them. Uh so we specify
uh what entities do we want to add to
the search index. We need to specify
what fields of the entities and also we
can uh index some relations.
Um also in back office all the
autocomplete fields are using search.
Okay. And all this definition sits
inside search young file.
And how to define this search file? It's
inside resources config oro. So it will
be autoloaded for you. Then in the
search name space we specify fully
qualified class name. And then we can
have some aliases.
Uh
about this I will talk in a moment
because I will need to show you how this
work for you to know where this goes to.
But then basically we have a definition
of our fields and we can index as many
fields as we want. definition is really
simple but because first we need to
specify the name. This will be the name
of this field in our search engine.
Then uh
type of our field name it's text and
then target fields. So the
the field uh on our entity.
Uh so basically you just specify the
list of fields that you want to index
and and
that's it actually the opposite this is
the name and the type in the index and
this is the name on your entity. So with
those two parameters you can for example
um
you can have different name on your
entity and different name
in the index or you can for example
create a field in index called full name
and index prefix first name and all
those five variables into the same uh
field in index. Okay. So this gives you
options.
Okay. Uh what about relations? So let's
talk uh on the phones example. They all
look pretty much the same. So this is my
contact. Contact has multiple phones and
phone is a standalone entity.
Uh but we don't want to index
everything. We only want to index the
phone number from this phone entity. So
my phone entity can probably has a
label, phone number and some other
fields. And I only want to index phone
number. Phone number is actually under
the phone variable.
Uh and I want to index it into contact
phones. So right now in the search index
for my contact, I will have contact
phones field that will be filled in with
all the phone numbers.
And this is how to do it.
Okay. Uh
now I would like to show you how this
looks uh in the UI
to be able to tell you where this part
goes to.
So uh we have the search available here
at the top left and we can search for
something. Let's search for Deborah.
And as you can see now we have search
results. Uh so this search result is
rendered with a template. So we will
have HTML tweak template behind this and
it is rendering some result and it also
has a link to the view page here
and this goes exactly to this. First we
define where is the HTML tweak that is
responsible for displaying a search
result for my contact entity and then
the route is used by my search template
to generate the link for the view page.
So we need to pass the route name for
our view action and we need to pass the
ID parameter because our view action
requires uh view uh id. So this route
will be generated and our search
template will use it to display here
next to some other data is to display
the link to the view page of our uh
entity. Okay. So this is where this part
goes to.
Uh
okay.
>> Yep.
>> Uh can we see what the template looks
like? I'm just curious. Yeah, I'm just
going to show you this now.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Yeah.
So, for this template, you also don't
need to create it from scratch. Uh you
just need to pass some particular
variables extend our base template and
this base template will render all this
uh for you in this format. But so you
need to pass the URL uh you need to pass
this information data. This is the
entity type. So there are a few
parameters that you need to pass there.
So uh there is also parameter to uh show
image or not because sometimes we have
avatar sometimes not.
Uh then in all our templates you'll see
also those hints that because this is a
search result template you will by
default have two variables inside your
entity and basically the item taken from
the search index. Okay. So the record
URL will be in uh taken from the search
index and this goes back to this route
which will be generated and this uh will
be used to display the view link. Okay.
Then we have some title
entity type.
Not sure where is title to be honest. I
would need to check it. This is entity
type.
Title may be used to render the name for
the link basically.
And then we have entity info and entity
info this is in this case an array
because this displays this created at
and updated at. So we have label value
pipe label value and this goes directly
to
this is a label under the title variable
we have a label.
Then we have value which is created at
or n a and then we have second
which is displaying updated at. So we
have two elements and they will are
displayed here divided by a pipe.
So basically you need to pass this part
this part.
This is very good example to follow
and the base template will just take
those uh
parameters and display it in this nice
way like here you'll have the same
styling etc. So always use the base
template it has all the classes and all
those divs spans and etc there. So your
record will be rendered in similar way.
Okay.
Uh okay. So in the UI you already saw
that uh in the
autocomplete.
Okay. In the autocomplete
let's check this customer create.
Okay, this is
autocomplete
that is coming from the search.
Okay, and also this whole element uh
it's a form type called
create and select or and create inline
something. I will show you in a moment
exactly what's the name for this form
type.
uh and you will see this particular
element in many places like here I
already have two they always have
autocomplete coming from the search
index but then you also have a burger
which opens data grid and this comes
directly from your database so you can
have situation when something it's not
indexed yet you will not have it on the
autocomplete but you will have it here
because this data grid it's taken
directly from the database
and then we have also this plus I icon
that is basically opening the create
page for us in a popup. Okay. So we can
in the same moment create and select
this entity for my customer
um
database structure. So in case we're not
using uh elastic search but we use
database. I think I already shown you
that on the first day but why not show
you again
search. Okay. So we have search um item
here we are telling what entity we are
indexing and exactly which one because
this is the ID of my in this case email
user and then for each item
we can uh index multiple values and they
have all different tables. So we have
separate table for text integer decimal
and and date time and inside we just
have item id that goes directly to this
one row for example
and the field name and index value.
So in case you're using database which
is true for the training repository
because it's community edition. Uh so
there are the tables in the database for
that.
uh then we have a command to run
reindex. So out of the box when you go
to the UI and edit some entity and you
click save there will be a message
pushed to the message queue that this
entity needs reindex. So you need to
have consumers running in order for this
to
uh happen.
Um
but if you'd like to reindex everything
or even some particular entities but
you'd like to do it from the command
line uh there is a command called oral
search reindex. If you execute it like
this uh
the application will be reindexed. So in
my case it's local and I know that my
application is really small. So I will
just execute it and
it will probably finish. Yeah, it
already did. But never do this on
production because you can have a lot of
data there. Uh so for this we have the
scheduled switch. Uh so basically this
tells that we want to go do it through
the message Q. So if I use the switch
the reindex will not happen instantly
but the message that we want to reindex
everything will be pushed to message Q
and then message Q will just process it
uh part by part.
So in the background it will just
probably take take long time but it can
since it's through the message key.
uh and uh just as an information because
we haven't uh ACL
we we haven't spoke about ACL uh yet but
inside the search whenever I search for
some entity here it's also prefiltered
by my ACL so for example I might not
have access to view some entity
and the search query that is used here
in the background it's actually in the
background applying my ACL permission
ions and they are applied uh with ACL
helper service. So in case you would
like to do it manually or basically to
know the service name that is
responsible for applying ACL rules on
top of for example this search query uh
this is the guy that does it.
Uh and coming back to this autocomplete
uh as you saw here
I have actually example for
contact.
So let it be this way. So this
autocomplete uh that you see here for
the account here for the group it's
using um search index. So this is
actually some specific form type that
it's filled with search index results
and the form type for it
it's really simple in case you want to
create something similar. So we're
creating just some form type uh symphony
form type and extending u default
symfony abstract type.
Uh then our parent will be in this case
or entity select or create inline type
and this is this long name that I
couldn't remember a second ago. Uh so
you want to extend some parent form type
that is basically there for you and uh
just by the name I can tell that this is
exactly this because we are selecting or
inline creating right so we are either
selecting or inline creating something
uh get name get block prefix standard
symfony form type elements uh
and then the only thing you need to do
inside the configure options s uh is to
put some defaults. Uh so first of all uh
it needs an autocomplete alias. You need
to create this service. I will show you
in a moment how to create this service.
But uh this tells you that there is some
search handler with this alias and this
search handler is returning results from
search index to your form type. Okay. So
behind this alias there is a service PHP
class that it's taking contacts from
elastic search or any other search index
database for example and uh putting it
to this form. Then because this is also
inline create we need to specify the
route for the create action and this
will go to your controller create
action. This will be this name and some
additional elements.
for the UI basically. So placeholder.
So here we have choose an account and
then we have two templates for the
result and selection. So whenever one
template will be this one second if I
select it probably it's almost the same.
Uh and
that's it. So basically you just need to
extend our parent
specify the route to create page for
your entity and the most important part
create the search handler that will uh
return uh in this particular case
contacts to the select type. So how to
create the search handler
here? Actually you don't need to
implement PHP class you just need to re
register service because there is a uh
PHP class
or from autocomplete search handler this
one
uh it's inside our bundles and you can
just basically use it so in Symphfony
you don't need to create like empty PHP
class say that it extends from parent
but it will be totally empty. So
Symphony allows us not to create those
empty classes but just to register your
custom service say that parents it's
some other class. This is just basically
inheritance.
Uh and now we have our handler
from the symphony point of view. This is
separate service. It just doesn't have
uh it has implementation in parent
class. It doesn't have it its own class.
And our parent class uh requires you to
pass two parameters.
What entity you want to look for? So
we're searching we're returning the list
of contacts and in which fields you're
going to search
this whatever type here let's say test.
So this search query
I want to search name prefix first name
middle name last name and name safic
fields of contact
against this uh sorry against this query
and return proper results here. Okay so
what entity inside which fields who
we're searching and that's it. This is
the only part that our parent class
needs to work and it will return you the
appropriate list of contacts all of them
or filtered by some query
from those uh fields and this search
handler needs to be tagged as a form
autocomplete search handler. So our
application needs to know that this
service is a search handler and you need
to specify an alias. This is very
important part because this is exactly
the alias that now we are passing here.
Okay. So autocomplete alias
this form will use this particular
handler to get the results from index
engine
and yes you can protect it with ACL
resource. So we will talk about ACL like
it's our next topic so tomorrow.
Okay. And that's basically it. Some
configuration uh sorry documentation for
future reference
uh and just best best practice uh for
the whole like crowd and index
everything. Make sure that uh you
translate values and that you also
localize some values like display date
times in nice format based on
localization because we have different
format for USA different for for me for
Poland we have different order in month
and and and day for example so make sure
all this fits the current localization
so this is why we have all those
translations etc. So whenever I change
my uh language here in the back office,
everything will actually uh be
translated and my date format will be
also displayed like
in the way that this particular language
uses it.
Okay, that's that's it.
Uh yeah, any questions, additional ones?
Oh, I have a question related to the
exercise, the data grid one we did. Um,
in the slide it showed, you know, you
talked about the optional piece with the
template and then in the screenshot it
showed like the ID was in the format
column. Do you have the code that does
that? I'm just curious how you were able
to how you're able to access the entity
information in another field.
>> Yep. Sure. So
when you specify the template in the
data grid
>> mhm
>> in the background or it's fetching uh
some information for you and this would
be the template.
>> Mhm.
>> To those template that are used in data
grid we always inject two elements. One
is the two variables where one is the
value and this is basically the value of
the cell. So this is the format and
second you have access to record and
this is the whole row.
>> Okay.
>> And on the row you can use the get value
here you can in our case pass id title
right because this is whole row and you
can display other fields.
>> Okay. Yeah I was looking trying to
figure it out and I found there was like
a context you can pass but that's
static. So and then you can use a method
to pass it but I thought that was a
little overboard but yeah this makes
sense. It's very simple.
Yeah. So we we have it here so you can
just use it.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Uh okay we have like half an hour to
finish. So
uh I will
>> I have a question. Um can you um tell me
maybe example of the uh complex
uh complex save action when two forms
are saved at the same time. Um how how
this case is resolved. Example, if you
have address customer and address
um how it is saved then
>> uh
you're asking me about something like
that I have
uh where I can have it actually we can
check the customer and address so let's
go here
and we have our customer and also
addresses saved right this is what you
mean
>> right right yeah
>> so yeah behind this there is a
controller that is doing all this it
doesn't have this default handler this
is some additional form handler and yay
I can totally find the code that is
responsible for the for this and share
uh the links to appropriate classes but
I will not do it right now because I
will just waste your time. I need like
five minutes to give you that.
>> Okay.
>> I will come back to you with an list of
classes responsible for saying that
I will do it once you'll be doing the
practice. So I have some time then.
Okay. uh since we have still half an
hour so let me do this way that I will
explain you the practice part and then
basically you can start today
uh but basically we're going to do this
practice tomorrow because it's already
almost over today's session. So let me
just explain the practice and
Uh okay. So here uh in the practice we
will only create the view page. We don't
have enough time to create the whole CR
and we will do this uh one element to
have this delete uh button on the view
page and in our data grid. So you
already have index page, you already
have controller uh you have data grid.
So right now we want to create a view
page and on this view page the only
thing that we want to render is title
and format.
The optional part will be grid of users
uh who use this format. So this will be
the way uh that I explained to you in
here. So those are grid of some entities
prefiltered by our entity ID.
But this is optional. So to create the
view page, we already have a controller
because we created it for the index
action. So we only need to create a view
action and to create a view template.
And for this you have examples for
example here. So this is for the view
action
and
sorry
you can use the last one. Then you will
have example for optional part two.
Actually optional part is selected here
and nonoptional part like the normal
part it's here at the top. Okay. So we
want to render in our case it's title
and format. Okay. So this is how you
will render it. Import UI render first
property for us. This will be title.
Here will be format and then push it to
the first block as a first sub block.
Then give it some ID
set data call parent and that's it. So
for the um normal nonoptional part
actually all the not selected elements
is what you want to do for the optional
part. So for displaying a grid
uh like this plus this or this plus
this. So we only want one grid here in
the example you have actually two grids
right
and you uh of course need to create this
grid first. So uh controller action view
HTML tweak and you're done. Uh then we
want to add uh view
row action to the grid. So we already
have a grid of our usernaming types.
We have it here on the index page. And
you want to have this view icon here.
This view action. How to add a view
action
and make it row action. So how to add a
view action? You will need to go back to
previous topic and search.
Uh no
I thought I given you a link on the
practice but I didn't.
Okay. We have here the simple grid
example. So we need to add a view action
here and you can pick how to do it in
here. So in the action section we add a
view action. Uh it's of type navigate
you need to give it some label. We have
some default translations. So in our uh
oro uh data grid bundle we have this
translation. So we can use exactly this
one.
Uh no resource yet. Uh I icon always we
have I icon there. Uh row make it row
action. This will mean that uh whenever
I click on this data grid, I don't need
to click exactly this icon. I can click
any place in the row and view will be
the row action. So I will go to the view
page. Okay. So this is it and the most
important part the view link. But the
view link is actually an attribute
property that is created from some other
properties. So you will need to have
also the properties section
uh view link that is a URL. This is your
route name to the view page.
The one that you created in previous
point in this first point we created a
view action in controller.
So this is the one and then parameter is
ID because the view page needs to have
Yep.
>> Wait a minute. One quick question. So
row action two means it is that that
link will be available for wall row. If
you want to target for only icon level
target
when I click on that icon then only I
want to allow them to edit it. Do we
have such options?
>> I'm not sure if I understood you
correctly. Are you asking me for
>> actions? So right now there is a I icon
right?
>> Yes.
>> So
>> whether I click on I icon or the
anywhere in that means same action but I
just want to allow a action clicking up
on I I icon only not the wall row
action.
>> So you don't put this row action to
true. Like for example here for the
update we don't have it. We can
basically have only one row action.
>> Okay. Okay. So
>> yes, we just don't put it.
>> Okay. So that parameter we can just
ignore it.
>> Yes. But actually the task was telling
you to
uh make it also as a row action. That's
why I explained it also to you. So you
will know how to u say that this action
should be row action. So if you don't it
will just not do it.
>> That's okay. So coming back to the view
link uh yeah this is URL and it's going
to be generated based on some route and
you also need to pass ID uh yeah because
when we click here
here we need to open some particular uh
entity uh and this ID also needs to be
declared here as a property but for the
ID you only put tilda and this will
basically go directly to your select so
make sure you're selecting ID also
This will be matched with this ID and it
will be used to generate the URL and the
URL will be used in your view action to
basically go somewhere. Right? So this
part
and this part
okay and then add delete row action. So
uh
how to get this delete button for free
almost for free and the delete here on
the view page will also appear to do
this inside our usernaming type entity
uh you need to add
this part. So in the config section just
add route name and fill it with the um
route name of your index page. Right? So
for us actually for me this is the route
name for my index is training usernaming
index. Okay. And you can also check it
in the controller.
Uh yeah and that's basically all for the
nonoptional part. Then we have first
optional part which may not be so
interesting as the second. So I will
start from the second uh because second
is actually to add our usernaming type
to the search index because right now if
you try to search for it here you will
not have it yet.
So in case you'll have some more time
you can start from this instead of this.
Okay. So you have all the hints here. uh
how to create the search YAML file
because you need to create the search
YAML file. Uh create a template for the
search result.
Execute uh this method.
Execute this or search index and you're
done. Okay. So basically only the
definition and we want to index only
title field. So our definition will be
super short
uh template definition template execute
command to the index and you should see
it in the search
and this goes back actually totally not
related to or uh this is just a tweak
extension. Okay. So in Oro internal in
Oro we use tweak templates. So uh this
is just to add a tweak extension to
render something. So it's up to you if
you prefer to create create a filter or
function. It doesn't matter. Uh and how
to create a tweak extension.
I've sent you a link to documentation
from Symphony because basically that's
really not Oro. uh so we don't have
anything in our documentation for it uh
because it's not our functionality
and here you have it and I think that
tweak was also somewhere
in this topic number three extending
functionality with bundles.
Yeah, here we had some tweak extension.
So you have a link to the example but
probably following documentation will be
much simpler.
Okay.
Uh so guys uh I think we can finish for
today or you can start if you have still
some energy or whatever. Uh but we
didn't have a lot of breaks today and
basically yeah
so let's finish for today. Tomorrow
we'll start from this practice um this
practice
and
>> so last question not related to this uh
topic.
>> So I I'm seeing we are uh going through
all the customization on the back end
level. So are you doing any any
customization or any template level
content level template updates?
No, there's no storefront theme uh topic
in this uh in this training.
>> Oh, okay.
>> We do have some additional so you can
request it from I don't know actually
who if it was Rulo or somebody else that
set up this training so you can reach
out to them.
>> Uh but basically the scope of this
training
uh has a lot of elements but layouts are
not one of them.
Yeah, you know
>> we still have ACL import a lot of things
to talk about.
>> Definitely this session is definitely
helpful for expand enhancing the
features or expanding the new features
on the back end level. But you know 60
or 70% of clients are
uh they they do not much worry about the
back end. they need a front level
solution to design or get some something
fresh from the back end and list out on
the front end. So if we could have this
type of documentation available
somewhere uh then also it would work
otherwise I can definitely check with
our
our internal team who set up this uh
training for everyone. So sit
>> I mean we don't have such a training uh
like right now but yeah we can show you
something but that's need to be
scheduled and for some time in the
future
[Music]
>> and basically yes but um I don't really
agree that editing theme it's everything
because there you have just the styling
and putting elements there but if you'd
like to display additional uh element on
the product view page for example you
need to first create this element so you
need to know this whole back end
information storefront is just
displaying it but yes yes we using all
oral layouts there this is totally
custom thing uh so I totally understand
you that you'd like to have some um
training from this at least like one
topic how to build theme and so on and
so on so this is more more back office
for uh backend uh developers not for
front- end developers. This training is
yes more for back end developers than
front end developers.
>> Yeah, this training is absolutely
helpful and clearing lots of question.
So that but I I was uh looking for some
front end level options as well to
explore it and override something or
design something uh beyond the limits.
So but yeah I will check with our team
but thank you uh for explaining all
these uh things too much detail. So it's
definitely helpful.
>> Mhm. And yeah, if you need some other
like topic about the layouts, etc. is
please reach u the person that organized
this training for you, we can probably
schedule something. Yes, we are always
happy to help. Just this is not in this
training because this is yes more for
back end developers their front end. Uh
so yeah we can for sure uh
schedule some additional uh meeting and
show you the storefront part. I'm sure
we can do it.
>> And you are the one we who is also
providing such a training or someone
else.
Um,
I'm not sure who you contacted uh at
first to be honest because my contact is
always Kate and she's uh organizing
those meetings and all those sending all
those emails uh pre-training.
Uh but usually uh Kate also gets those
training from some other people. So this
could be Romeul or this could be any our
saleserson to be honest. So, I'm not
sure who was your first contact. You're
the only person. You're the only people
that can know this. But if you're also
not not sure how this all happened, you
can contact Kate. She sent an email last
week on Friday just before we started
the training um like the training heads
up to um tell you that uh training is
starting on Monday, etc., etc. So, you
can always reach her. No my question was
uh the front end training you are the
same person who will be providing in
case it schedule I was asking
>> I'm not sure there are multiple trainers
so I'm not sure who will be scheduled
for your training this can be me but uh
this might be some other person it we
will see
>> uh depending on our availability right
>> yeah that is
Okay, thank you.
>> Sure.
>> Okay, guys. So, I'm letting you go
earlier today. Uh 15 minutes. Yay. Uh
so, have a nice uh day, evening, good
night.
H Thank you for today and see you
tomorrow, our last uh day before the
weekend.
Thank you so much. See you tomorrow.
Bye.